## Policy context

### Introduction

Introductory text
<!---  this section needs to be filled in with something --->

### Purpose: intended business outcomes

At an individual level, at school level: To track the extent to which
students are meeting their obligation to attend school, and to signal
the need for intervention where this is not the case.

At an aggregate level, at school system and national level: To flag to
education providers and government the schools and areas where
attendance expectations are not being met, and to signal the need for
larger scale intervention in those areas.

### Context: business motivation

At the student and school level: 
Schools are required to meet their duty of care obligation to students,
by ensuring that they are attending school unless there are compelling
reasons for them not to.

Tracking Attendance is used for a variety of operational, accountability
and strategic purposes, and for educational research.

At an aggregate level, at school system and national level: 
Failure of students to attend school without justification is a major
indicator of students being at risk of not completing their education.
Government departments have a responsibility to detect such risk and
intervene as appropriate, both at an individual level, and at an
aggregate level (targeting schools or socioeconomic groups). 

### Authorising environment-Legislation, agreement etc

Education providers in each state and jurisdiction are required by law
to determine the whereabouts of each student on each school day. There
is also a legal obligation on guardians to ensure that students under
their care attend school.

The National Education Agreement of COAG identifies student attendance
rates as a key measure of engagement, and as a performance indicator in
the National Education Reform Agreement (NERA), the National Indigenous
Reform Agreement (NIRA), the Report on Government Services (ROGS) and
the Measurement Framework for Schooling in Australia. 

Compliance with federal reporting requirements is a precondition for
ongoing funding support to schools from the government.

### Governance, oversight: business accountability 

National standards for attendance are prepared by the Student Attendance
Data subgroup of ACARA, with representation from all jurisdictions and
sectors.  

### Data exchange summary

 ![Image of data exchange](/docs/basic_daily_attendance/images/daily attendance data flow.png)

 ### Business rules summary 

Attendance for national reporting is calculated as the ratio of
full-time equivalent of student-days to the total number of possible
student days. There are 19 categories of absence defined nationally,
with decisions for each as to how they are to be considered in the
absence calculation.

There is variation between school authorities as to :

-   the granularity of absence (0.5 vs two decimal places)

-   the categories of absence recognised

-   whether attendance is tracked for students enrolled in multiple
    schools in the same sector

-   whether time fractions for attendance are calculated at the school
    or centrally (based on detailed in-and-out times)

-   whether attendance is reported by exception, or including both
    attendances and absences.

### Privacy considerations summary

Attendance data gathered at the school level, and passed on to school
systems, is extremely sensitive (reasons for absence); data storage and
transfer needs to be handled appropriately.

The aggregated attendance data passed on to government agencies is of
low sensitivity; no special safeguards are called for.
